<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="dir">
    <title>dir</title>
    <shortdesc>Displays a list of a directory's files and subdirectories. If used without
        parameters, this command displays the disk's volume label and serial number, followed by a
        list of directories and files on the disk (including their names and the date and time each
        was last modified). For files, this command displays the name extension and the size in
        bytes. This command also displays the total number of files and directories listed, their
        cumulative size, and the free space (in bytes) remaining on the disk.The dir command can
        also run from the Windows Recovery Console, using different parameters. For more
        information, see <xref
            href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/manufacture/desktop/windows-recovery-environment--windows-re--technical-reference"
            format="html" scope="external">Windows Recovery Environment (WinRE)</xref>.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author type="contributor">Shri</author>
        <critdates>
            <!--Shri-->
            <revised modified="2024-03-24"/>
            <!--Shri-->
            <revised modified="2024-03-30"/>
            <!--Shri-->
            <revised modified="2024-04-03"/>
        </critdates>
    </prolog>
    <refbody>
        <section id="section_t44_vpp_s1c">
            <title>Syntax</title>
            <p>
                <codeblock id="codeblock_tlw_bqp_s1c" outputclass="language-cmd">dir [&lt;drive>:][&lt;path>][&lt;filename>] [...] [/p] [/q] [/w] [/d] [/a[[:]&lt;attributes>]][/o[[:]&lt;sortorder>]] [/t[[:]&lt;timefield>]] [/s] [/b] [/l] [/n] [/x] [/c] [/4] [/r]</codeblock>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_r5h_2qp_s1c">
            <title>Parameters</title>
            <p>
                <table frame="all" rowsep="1" id="table_gyn_5qp_s1c">
                    <title>dir Parameters</title>
                    <tgroup cols="2" align="center">
                        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*" align="left"/>
                        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="3.59*" align="left"/>
                        <thead>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Parameter</entry>
                                <entry>Description</entry>
                            </row>
                        </thead>
                        <tbody>
                            <row>
                                <entry><codeph>[&lt;drive>:][&lt;path>]</codeph></entry>
                                <entry>Specifies the drive and directory for which you want to see a
                                    listing.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry><codeph>[&lt;filename>]</codeph></entry>
                                <entry>Specifies a particular file or group of files for which you
                                    want to see a listing.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/p</entry>
                                <entry>Displays one screen of the listing at a time. To see the next
                                    screen, press any key.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/q</entry>
                                <entry>Displays file ownership information.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/w</entry>
                                <entry>Displays the listing in wide format, with as many as five
                                    file names or directory names on each line.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/d</entry>
                                <entry>Displays the listing in the same format as <b>/w</b>, but the
                                    files are sorted by column.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/a[[:]<codeph>&lt;attributes></codeph>]</entry>
                                <entry>Displays only the names of those directories and files with
                                    your specified attributes. If you don't use this parameter, the
                                    command displays the names of all files except hidden and system
                                    files. If you use this parameter without specifying any
                                        <i>attributes</i>, the command displays the names of all
                                    files, including hidden and system files. The list of possible
                                        <i>attributes</i> values are:<p>
                                        <ul id="ul_edl_trp_s1c">
                                            <li>d - Directories</li>
                                            <li>h - Hidden files</li>
                                            <li>s - System files</li>
                                            <li>l - Reparse points</li>
                                            <li>r - Read-only files</li>
                                            <li>a - Files ready for archiving</li>
                                            <li>i - Not content indexed files</li>
                                        </ul>
                                    </p><p>You can use any combination of these values, but don't
                                        separate your values using spaces. Optionally you can use a
                                        colon (:) separator, or you can use a hyphen (-) as a prefix
                                        to mean, "not". For example, using the <b>-s</b> attribute
                                        won't show the system files.</p></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/o[[:]<codeph>&lt;sortorder></codeph>]</entry>
                                <entry>Sorts the output according to <i>sortorder</i>, which can be
                                    any combination of the following values:<p>
                                        <ul id="ul_ipp_4sp_s1c">
                                            <li>n - Alphabetically by name</li>
                                            <li>e - Alphabetically by extension</li>
                                            <li>g - Group directories first</li>
                                            <li>s - By size, smallest first</li>
                                            <li>d - By date/time, oldest first</li>
                                            <li>Use the - prefix to reverse the sort order</li>
                                        </ul>
                                    </p><p>Multiple values are processed in the order in which you
                                        list them. Don't separate multiple values with spaces, but
                                        you can optionally use a colon (:).</p><p>If
                                            <i>sortorder</i> isn't specified, <b>dir /o</b> lists
                                        the directories alphabetically, followed by the files, which
                                        are also sorted alphabetically.</p></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/t[[:]<codeph>&lt;timefield></codeph>]</entry>
                                <entry>Specifies which time field to display or to use for sorting.
                                    The available <i>timefield</i> values are:<p>
                                        <ul id="ul_t1n_msp_s1c">
                                            <li>c - Creation</li>
                                            <li>a - Last accessed</li>
                                            <li>w - Last written</li>
                                        </ul>
                                    </p></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/s</entry>
                                <entry>Lists every occurrence of the specified file name within the
                                    specified directory and all subdirectories.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/b</entry>
                                <entry>Displays a bare list of directories and files, with no
                                    additional information. The <b>/b</b> parameter overrides
                                        <b>/w</b>.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/l</entry>
                                <entry>Displays unsorted directory names and file names, using
                                    lowercase.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/n</entry>
                                <entry>Displays a long list format with file names on the far right
                                    of the screen.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/x</entry>
                                <entry>Displays the short names generated for non-8dot3 file names.
                                    The display is the same as the display for <b>/n</b>, but the
                                    short name is inserted before the long name.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/c</entry>
                                <entry>Displays the thousand separator in file sizes. This is the
                                    default behavior. Use <b>/-c</b> to hide separators.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/4</entry>
                                <entry>Displays years in four-digit format.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/r</entry>
                                <entry>Display alternate data streams of the file.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>/?</entry>
                                <entry>Displays help at the command prompt.</entry>
                            </row>
                        </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                </table>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_fvk_htp_s1c">
            <title>Remarks</title>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_cxf_15p_s1c">
                    <li>
                        <p>To use multiple <i>filename</i> parameters, separate each file name with
                            a space, comma, or semicolon.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>You can use wildcard characters (<b>*</b> or <b>?</b>), to represent one
                            or more characters of a file name and to display a subset of files or
                            subdirectories.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>You can use the wildcard character, <b>*</b>, to substitute for any string
                        of characters, for example:<ul id="ul_vvg_25p_s1c">
                            <li>
                                <p><codeph>dir *.txt</codeph> lists all files in the current
                                    directory with extensions that begin with .txt, such as .txt,
                                    .txt1, .txt_old.</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p><codeph>dir read *.txt</codeph> lists all files in the current
                                    directory that begin with read and with extensions that begin
                                    with .txt, such as .txt, .txt1, or .txt_old.</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p><codeph>dir read *.*</codeph> lists all files in the current
                                    directory that begin with read with any extension.</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>The asterisk wildcard always uses short file name mapping, so you might
                        get unexpected results. For example, the following directory contains two
                        files (t.txt2 and
                            t97.txt):<codeblock id="codeblock_tdd_m5p_s1c" outputclass="language-cmd">C:\test>dir /x
Volume in drive C has no label.
Volume Serial Number is B86A-EF32

Directory of C:\test

11/30/2004  01:40 PM &lt;DIR>  .
11/30/2004  01:40 PM &lt;DIR> ..
11/30/2004  11:05 AM 0 T97B4~1.TXT t.txt2
11/30/2004  01:16 PM 0 t97.txt</codeblock><p>You might expect that
                            typing <codeph>dir t97\*</codeph> would return the file t97.txt.
                            However, typing <codeph>dir t97\*</codeph> returns both files, because
                            the asterisk wildcard matches the file t.txt2 to t97.txt by using its
                            short name map <i>T97B4~1.TXT</i>. Similarly, typing <codeph>del
                                t97\*</codeph> would delete both files.</p></li>
                    <li>
                        <p>You can use the question mark (?) as a substitute for a single character
                            in a name. For example, typing <codeph>dir read???.txt</codeph> lists
                            any files in the current directory with the .txt extension that begin
                            with read and are followed by up to three characters. This includes
                            Read.txt, Read1.txt, Read12.txt, Read123.txt, and Readme1.txt, but not
                            Readme12.txt.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>If you use <b>/a</b> with more than one value in <i>attributes</i>, this
                            command displays the names of only those files with all the specified
                            attributes. For example, if you use <b>/a</b> with <b>r</b> and
                                <b>-h</b> as attributes (by using either <codeph>/a:r-h</codeph> or
                                <codeph>/ar-h</codeph>), this command will only display the names of
                            the read-only files that aren't hidden.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>If you specify more than one <i>sortorder</i> value, this command sorts
                            the file names by the first criterion, then by the second criterion, and
                            so on. For example, if you use <b>/o</b> with the <b>e</b> and <b>-s</b>
                            parameters for <i>sortorder</i> (by using either <codeph>/o:e-s</codeph>
                            or <codeph>/oe-s</codeph>), this command sorts the names of directories
                            and files by extension, with the largest first, and then displays the
                            final result. The alphabetic sorting by extension causes file names with
                            no extensions to appear first, then directory names, and then file names
                            with extensions.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>If you use the redirection symbol (<codeph>></codeph>) to send this
                            command's output to a file, or if you use a pipe (<codeph>|</codeph>) to
                            send this command's output to another command, you must use
                                <codeph>/a:-d</codeph> and <b>/b</b> to only list the file names.
                            You can use <i>filename</i> with <b>/b</b> and <b>/s</b> to specify that
                            this command is to search the current directory and its subdirectories
                            for all file names that match <i>filename</i>. This command lists only
                            the drive letter, directory name, file name, and file name extension
                            (one path per line), for each file name it finds. Before you use a pipe
                            to send this command's output to another command, you should set the
                                <i>TEMP</i> environment variable in your Autoexec.nt file.</p>
                    </li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_qbl_1vp_s1c">
            <title>Examples</title>
            <p>To display all directories one after the other, in alphabetical order, in wide
                format, and pausing after each screen, make sure that the root directory is the
                current directory, and then
                type:<codeblock id="codeblock_lcz_bvp_s1c" outputclass="language-cmd">dir /s/w/o/p</codeblock></p>
            <p>The output lists the root directory, the subdirectories, and the files in the root
                directory, including extensions. This command also lists the subdirectory names and
                the file names in each subdirectory in the tree.</p>
            <p>To alter the preceding example so that <b>dir</b> displays the file names and
                extensions, but omits the directory names,
                type:<codeblock id="codeblock_orl_fvp_s1c" outputclass="language-cmd">dir /s/w/o/p/a:-d</codeblock></p>
            <p>To print a directory listing,
                type:<codeblock id="codeblock_ttm_hvp_s1c" outputclass="language-cmd">dir > prn</codeblock></p>
            <p>When you specify <b>prn</b>, the directory list is sent to the printer that is
                attached to the LPT1 port. If your printer is attached to a different port, you must
                replace <b>prn</b> with the name of the correct port.</p>
            <p>You can also redirect output of the <b>dir</b> command to a file by replacing
                    <b>prn</b> with a file name. You can also type a path. For example, to direct
                    <b>dir</b> output to the file dir.doc in the Records directory,
                type:<codeblock id="codeblock_emp_kvp_s1c" outputclass="language-cmd">dir > \records\dir.doc</codeblock></p>
            <p>If dir.doc does not exist, <b>dir</b> creates it, unless the <b>Records</b> directory
                does not exist. In that case, the following message
                appears:<codeblock id="codeblock_mql_mvp_s1c" outputclass="language-cmd">File creation error</codeblock></p>
            <p>To display a list of all the file names with the .txt extension in all directories on
                drive C,
                type:<codeblock id="codeblock_rwm_4vp_s1c" outputclass="language-cmd">dir c:\*.txt /w/o/s/p</codeblock></p>
            <p>where</p>
            <parml id="parml_q3f_xfm_y1c">
                <plentry>
                    <pt>c:\*.txt</pt>
                    <pd>File names with the .txt extension in all directories on drive C.</pd>
                </plentry>
                <plentry>
                    <pt>/w</pt>
                    <pd>Wide format</pd>
                </plentry>
                <plentry>
                    <pt>/p</pt>
                    <pd>Pauses each time the screen fills until you press any key to continue.</pd>
                </plentry>
            </parml>
        </section>
        <section id="section_thk_qvp_s1c">
            <title>Related Links</title>
            <p><xref
                    href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/manufacture/desktop/windows-recovery-environment--windows-re--technical-reference"
                    format="html" scope="external">Command Line Syntax Key</xref></p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_ohb_rvp_s1c">
            <title>Feedback</title>
            <p>
                <note id="note_fvf_bwp_s1c" type="important">Coming soon: Throughout 2024 we will be
                    phasing out GitHub Issues as the feedback mechanism for content and replacing it
                    with a new feedback system. For more information see:<xref
                        href="https://aka.ms/ContentUserFeedback" format="html" scope="external"
                    /></note>
            </p>
        </section>
    </refbody>
</reference>
